KeePass and other password managers reduce the need to
memorize multiple passwords for applications and websites.
A password generator application prevent users from creating easily guessable passwords.
By using one, you can set much longer and complex passwords.
Let me show you how KeePass works.
Just start by opening it.
In KeePass once it opens,
click File, and then New.
You'll need to create the new database,
read the instructions when you do.
Click Okay once you've read the instructions,
and now you need to set the location for your master database.
I'm just going with the defaults.
At this point, you need to create a master password.
You want this something to be really long and really strong.
I'm just setting a random password here.
You can see the quality is not very good because I just used keyboard strokes.
If I begin to make it a lot longer and change some of the keyboard strokes,
it may change some of the quality.
The three dots next to it lets you see what you're typing.
Once you're ready, click Okay to set this password for your master database.
You should then see the pop-up saying the password is week.
I'm just going to go with this one.
At this point I can name the database.
I'm just going to call it TestDB.
Now, you see a pop-up for
the KeePass emergency sheet that contains important information.
If you have a printer or you can just save this as a PDF,
consider printing this out because you may
need this if you ever lose or forget your master password.
So I'm just going to click Skip for now.
As you can see within KeePass,
we have some samples.
In your database, you can then add items by clicking Add Entry,
also found in the entry drop-down menu.
So let's click on Add Entry.
We can call this Website,
and this could be whatever website that I may be on.
My username, there is a user name, of course.
You can have it set or generate a password.
The password generator is really a cool tool to enable unique passwords.
You can set many of the different types of
special characters and the digits that you want.
So I added that in there and I'm clicking generate a password.
It automatically will generate a password for me that's long and strong.
That I don't need to remember.
When I'm ready with this entry, just click OK,
and you can see it's automatically added into the database.
KeePass has a number of other features.
It's open source, meaning it's openly available and free.
So I suggest you check it out to learn more about identity and access management.